---
title: Data From Polar Fitness Tracker
date: "2019-11-22T22:12:03.284Z"
---

Blaine and I have created a list of application ideas, one of them being a simple fitness application.

Rough notes-

Issue:
Most fitness trackers make calculations that are not always accurate.

Solution:
Build practical tools for people who want to be able to acess their own raw data.

Example:
We won't be able to get direct [HRV](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heart_rate_variability) information but instead we can get statistics that are generated by HRV information. It's understandable that the algorithms that they use to gain HRV information are proprietary but it doesn't make sense that we can't have access to the raw data.

One reason why someone would want access to HRV data:
Provide signals for whether one is over training or undertraining.

Polar has one of the most accessible ways allowing you to export your data, because of this we will focus on sucking in data from them. After examining some data there seems to be some inconsitencies which i'll dive into later.

The API we will build will be designed to be able to suck in data from other sources such as Fitbit, Garmin, and Suuntoo.

We'll start by reading from a local JSON file downloaded from Polar and performing small pragmatic calcluations.

Example caclulations:

1. Looking for the standard deviation of your heart rate.

2. Looking for things that might be important in regards to a healthy heart (machine learning- conditioning data)
   1. We know if your heart rate drops quickly after hard exercise thats a sign of good health
   2. Would we mine the information and find some signals that are worth while?
   3. Would it be a singal if the heart rate drops rapidly?
      Search function should look for things that might be 'rapid' drops.

Goal:

1. Have other people help us pull in data from places other than Polar

2. Creative minds

3. Sharing data with eachother
