---
title: Data From Polar Fitness Tracker
date: "2019-11-22T22:12:03.284Z"
---

Smple fitness application.

Rough notes-

Issue:
Most fitness trackers make calculations that are not always accurate.

Solution:
Build practical tools for people who want to access their own raw data to perform further calculations on.

Example:
We won't be able to access direct [HRV](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heart_rate_variability) information but instead we can gather statistics that are generated by HRV information. Though algorithms used to gain HRV information are proprietary, the data it produces would be accessible you'd think.

One reason why someone would want access to HRV data:
Provide signals for whether one is over training or undertraining???

Focusig on Polar currently as it has one of the most easy/accessible ways to export data.

The API we will build will be designed to pull data from other sources such as Fitbit, Garmin, and Suuntoo.

We'll start by reading from a local JSON file downloaded from Polar and performing small pragmatic calcluations.

Example caclulations:

1. Looking for the standard deviation of your heart rate.

2. Looking for things that might be important in regards to a healthy heart (machine learning- conditioning data)
   1. We know if your heart rate drops quickly after hard exercise that it signals good health.
   2. Would we mine the information and find some signals that are worth while?
   3. Would it be a singal if the heart rate drops rapidly?
      Search function should look for things that might be 'rapid' drops.
